Dormant BH candidates from Gaia DR3 summary diagnostics

Johanna MÃ¼ller-Horn(1,2), Hans-Walter Rix(1), Kareem El-Badry(3,1),
Ben Pennell(1,2), Matthew Green(1,4,5), Jiadong Li(1), and Rhys
Seeburger(1)

This manuscript attempts to indentify possible candidates for dormant
black holes from Gaia Data Release 3 (DR3), including candidates cut
from the strict quality cuts subjected to the published Gaia NSS
catalogue. Outside of one serendipitous lensing observation, all black
holes discovered in nature exist in binaries. Before 2023, these were
detected via X-ray emission or GWs. Unfortunately, both of these
detection methods represent a very rare (<<1%) type of black hole. DR3
has discovered three black holes through astrometry that capture a
much more representative black hole sample.

Since the NSS catalogue of published orbital solutions has strict
quality controls regarding noise and resolution, many potential
dormant BH features are not present in it. Nevertheless, our lack of
examples motivates us to individually consider dormant BH not given
orbital solutions, made possible by the fact that DR3 already offers
powerful diagnostics for identifying binaries with massive companions
through summary diagnostics. This paper finds 556 RGB stars that could
feature BH companions. Spectroscopic follow-up is essential to
validate the candidates considered in this paper.

Special note: This paper is of particular interest to me, as my PhD
project deals with the formation of these dormant BHs. Of course, the
dearth of observational examples (the study of these BHs is but 2
years old, after all) makes it difficult to accurately model the
conditions necessary to simulate them, so any information like this is
quite useful to me. This paper is especially useful, as it points to
other potential examples that I may need to use in a future paper of
mine. Also, Johanna (the author) is in Heidelberg too, and I'm almost
certain I'm gonna end up meeting her at some point in the future.
